# Deployment #
[More detailed and further reading](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/articles/core/deploying/)

It is possible to create two types of deployments for .NET Core
## Framework-dependent deployments (FDD)
FDD will only contain your app plus any dependencies that are included in your project.
This means that the version of .NET Core thats currently on the server will be used.
It is possible to specify a version of the framework that should be used for your project, but only if it is available on the server

Pros:
* The OS on the server you are deploying doesn't matter.
* Size of the deployment will be smaller than SCD

Cons:
* If you are running a specific version of .NET Core on your local machine, it is possible to run into version specific bugs on the remote server.
* If the framework running on the machine is updated it could break your application.

### FDD without third-party dependencies
If your application doesn't use any 3rd party libraries, it is only a matter of building and testing the app on your machine and then publishing it using the dotnet utility.

### FDD with third-party dependencies
This is almost the same process as the one before, except a reference to the dependencies is **needed**.
You need to add them to the dependencies sections in project.json.

## Self-contained deployments (SCD)
SCD will conatin your app + dependencies and the version of .NET that you built your app specifically with.
Note: [native dependencies](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/Documentation/prereqs.md) of .NET Core will not be included and need to be installed on the remote server before deployment.

Pros:
* You have complete control over dependencies and versions for your app.
* Your app should run correctly on the remote system, since both local and remote versions are the same.

Cons:
* Since you're deploying the framework, you need to specify the target platform and build, beforehand
* The size of the deployment will larger, since everything is included.
* More diskspace is needed. For instance if you are a developer working on multiple projects then each and every project has its own instance of the framework.


