# Deployment #

# Amazon EC2
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud compuing easier for developers ([See Here](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/)).

# EC2 Setup
After you have created an AWS account sign in to the aws console and open the EC2 dashboard.

We are going to be deploying a docker image using an Ubuntu Server.

Create a new instance (There should be a button "Launch Instance"), select Ubuntu Server which is free tier eligible.

Go through the setup wizard using the default configurations, the wizard will ask you to select a key pair, select create a new key pair name it permission and click "Download Key Pair" and save it somewhere safe. Now you can click Launch Instance (It might take 2-5 minutes for you instance to setup).

Go to Instances in your EC2 dasboard and there should be a newly created instance running Ubuntu name the instance and copy the Public DNS column which should look something like this:

ec2-54-244-61-184.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com

It's time to modify our instances security group so our app can be accessed through the internet, select the security group your instance is using (should be the only one there for a new account), and edit it's inbound so that it has inbound rules: SSH and a custom TCP Rule for Port Range 80 and source Anywhere.

Now the server should be setup.

# EC2 Deployment
For this section I'm assuming that you have your app inside a docker container pushed to your docker.io repository, if not see the [Docker Section](2. Docker.md) for more information on setting that up.

Now ssh into your instance by opening a terminal window where your permission.pem file is stored and running commands (make sure to change the DNS):
~~~~
chmod 400 permission.pem # A required security measure.
ssh -i "permission.pem" ubuntu@ec2-54-244-61-184.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com
~~~~
Now that you are inside your ssh run the following commands to deploy your docker container (Be sure to replace USERNAME, YOUR-REPO, TAGNAME and PORTNR):
~~~~
# Installing Docker
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://p80.pool.sks-keyservers.net:80 --recv-keys 58118E89F3A912897C070ADBF76221572C52609D
sudo apt-add-repository 'deb https://apt.dockerproject.org/repo ubuntu-xenial main'
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y docker-engine
sudo service docker start

# Running Container
sudo docker pull USERNAME/YOUR-REPO:TAGNAME # Pull the docker image
sudo docker run -p 80:PORTNR -d -e PORT=PORTNR -e NODE_ENV=production --name myapp USERNAME/YOUR-REPO:TAGNAME # Run docker container in the background with environment variable production mapping port 80 to PORTNR (use your apps usual port number as PORTNR).
~~~~
You should now be able to access your App via:

ec2-54-244-61-184.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com

# Continous Deployment
Continous deployment is an automated process of deploying software, for instance making your application automatically deploy on AWS each time a change is committed to your version control system. Here testing comes in handy as you can configure your deployment so it only runs if all your unit, integration and capacity tests run successfully.

Here is an example script of how a continuous deployment might look like:
~~~~
# Testing
npm run test:unit || exit 1 # Run unit tests and exit with error status if it fails.
npm run test:acceptance || exit 1 # Run integration/acceptance tests
npm run test:capacity || exit 1 # Run capcity tests

# Deployment
# Runs the quoted commands on EC2 instance
ssh -i "permission.pem" ubuntu@PUBLICDNS "sudo docker pull USERNAME/YOUR-REPO:TAGNAME"
ssh -i "permission.pem" ubuntu@PUBLICDNS "sudo docker kill myapp" # Kill previous app
ssh -i "permission.pem" ubuntu@PUBLICDNS "sudo docker rm myapp" # Remove previous app
ssh -i "permission.pem" ubuntu@PUBLICDNS "sudo docker run -p 80:PORTNR -d -e PORT=PORTNR -e NODE_ENV=production --name myapp USERNAME/YOUR-REPO:TAGNAME"
exit 0
~~~~
This is usually split up into multiple steps on a continuous integration server such as Jenkins CI.
