# Message Queues

Message queues are a platform- and programming language independent method for applications to communicate.
Applications which expose an API can clearly communicate, so why do we need message queues? There are many
use cases where they may be useful. For instance, assume that an event occurs in application A, and application B is
interested in this event. Application A could post a message to a message queue, and application B could
listen to those events, and run some code when the event occurs.

There are more usecases where a message queue will come in handy (see below).

In the terminology of message brokers, you have a process
that creates a message and sends it to a message queue. We refer to this
process as "The producer" of the message. Then we have another process
monitoring the queue for new messages. We refer to this process as "a
consumer". Note that there can be many producers and consumers working on the
same queue.

This way of process communication is platform independent and programming
language independent. You can have two systems, written in different
programming languages communicating easily.

## RabbitMQ

RabbitMQ is an open source message broker which implements the [AMQP protocol](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol). The
principal idea of RabbitMQ is to accept and forward messages between processes
on the same machine or over a network.

RabbitMQ, or similar applications, solve many problems that arise in large
applications and are often used as [ESB (Enterprise service bus)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_service_bus) within a large organizations.

The reason why we discuss message queues in this course is that they can help
us move logic out of request scope to be executed asynchronously. Before we
look at RabbitMQ in action, let's look at a scenario where that need might come
up.

Let us assume that you are implementing a simple web API for your newly created
small on-line store. You have a small warehouse where you store your items and
you have some workers that place the ordered items into boxes and ship them to
customers.

You decided to start simple by implementing the two following methods to manage
orders.
    
First, `POST /orders` where users can POST a JSON objects on the format

    {'customer_name': 'Daníel', 'products_ids': [2, 4 , 42]}

Where the `customer_name` field represents the name of the customers and
`product_ids` are the ids of the products which this given customer is ordering
(This API is simplified for the sake of the example).

Second, `GET /orders/:order_num` where users can GET by order id to see the
status of the order using the order identifier returned from `POST /orders`.

When a client posts a JSON object, in the view we simply write the details to
database and then we write the order id generated for this order to the
response. If the load on the database is relatively low, this request should not
take more than a couple of milliseconds.

Now let's dream big. Few years later your small business has grown big and you
now have hundred of employees working at your company and you have added some
"crucial" departments into your organization structure, such as sales and
marketing. To make this nightmare even worse, the sales department is using
[SAP](http://www.sap.com/index.html) and marketing is using some other horrible
tool for collecting statistical information on orders. These systems now need to
be notified when an order comes through our API. Also, the staff working in the
warehouse would appreciate if orders would be printed out on a printer in the
warehouse for them to work with.

A naive approach would be to implement this logic into the view directly. That
is, when the request arrives we write it to our database, then we communicate
with SAP and some other applications. When we are done, we add a printer job
(with generated PDF) with the order details.

If we do this in the scope of the request, the issuing client must wait for all
these tasks to finish before we can send back the response to the client. Many
of these things that we are now doing in the request is completely irrelevant for
the request issuer and we are simply wasting his/her time waiting for the request.

Here is where RabbitMQ comes in. The only thing that matters for the client is
to get the order id from the server when the request ends. We can then change
our API to do the following.

1. We write the order to database
2. We calculate order id that we can send to the client.
3. We create a message and we add it to an order queue.
4. We write the order id to the response to the client.

The keyword in this list is the word queue. With RabbitMQ we can have pool of
worker threads listening for new messages in the queue. When they get a
message, they can execute the code which notifies the above mentioned system
and adds the print job.

Let's see how that is done through examples. But first, we need to install
RabbitMQ.

# Installing RabbitMQ
RabbitMQ is an application server that you must setup and execute on a server
(or on your laptop). To install RabbitMQ on OS X we can use Homebrew:

    brew install rabbitmq
    rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management

The RabbitMQ server scripts are installed into /usr/local/sbin through Homebrew.
This is not automatically added to your path, so you may want to add it, to be able
to use the RabbitMQ commands. This can be accomplished by either adding 
PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/sbin to your .bash_profile or .profile. Or opening your
/etc/path by writing this in terminal:

    sudo vim /etc/paths
    or if you use VSCode:
    sudo code /etc/paths
    
(or any other text editor of you choosing) and add /usr/local/sbin to the file.

On Ubuntu, or other Linux distributions that use apt.

    sudo apt-get install rabbitmq-server
    sudo rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management

If you are using some other operating system then there are great installing
instructions on
[http://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html](http://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html)

After the install, the RabbitMQ server might been started up automatically for
you. To see if RabbitMQ is running, you can use the
[rabbitmqctl](http://www.rabbitmq.com/man/rabbitmqctl.1.man.html) to view the
status of your RabbitMQ.

    sudo rabbitmqctl status
    
If it didn't start automatically, you can start RabbitMQ in foreground with

    sudo rabbitmq-server    
    
When you install the management plugin you can manage RabbitMQ through a
web console. If you are running RabbitMQ on your local machine, the url should
be [http://localhost:55672](http://localhost:15672/). The management plugin does
also include a browser-based UI where you can observe your queues, see how many
are connected etc. To gain access to the UI you type the same path into your 
browser and use 'guest' for both username and password.

## Examples

There are a number of examples on the [rabbitmq website](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html).

Note that the JavaScript examples all assume that you have run the following commands:

    npm init
    npm install --save amqplib

(See [here](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-one-javascript.html)).

# Writing a Producer

A producer will post a message to a message queue. [This example](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-five-javascript.html) shows how to write a producer (check out the file emit_log_topic.js).

# Writing a Subscriber

A subscriber will listen to messages and when a message is added to the message queue, a callback within the subscriber will be executed. Again, check out the sample here: https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-five-javascript.html
    
# Message acknowledgment

The question of what happens if a task is killed or dies while still in progress. The code in the examples above removes the message from memory after delivery. In other words, when the worker thread has killed the message and all messages that were pending to be processed, are lost and cannot be retrieved. 

Tasks need to be preserved, so we need to devise a way to move messages to another worker when/if a thread dies

To work with that problem RabbitMQ implements ACK (acknowledgement). That means an acknowledgement packet is sent back from the consumer to tell RabbitMQ that the message has been recieved and processed so it is safe to be deleted.

Acknowledgement works well at RabbitMQ side, if an ack packet isn't recieved from the consumer RabbitMQ takes it as the message wasn't processed and redelivers it. This method is highly effective on preserving a message. RabbitMQ doesn't care if the duration of the connection takes longer than normal, it only acts if the connection with the consumer dies.

    TODO: change from Python to JavaScript!
    
    def callback(ch, method, properties, body):
        print " [x] Received %r" % (body,)
        time.sleep( body.count('.') )
        print " [x] Done"
        ch.basic_ack(delivery_tag = method.delivery_tag)
    
    channel.basic_consume(callback,
                          queue='hello')

this simple code makes sure that a message is not lost on worker being killed, unacknowledged messages are redelivered

# Message durability

If RabbitMQ server goes down it will lose all of its queues and therefore all of our messages.   To prevent this from happening even though the server crashes we need to mark both the queue and the message as durable.  
Here is how we declare the queue as durable:

       channel.queue_declare(queue='orders', durable=True)

Notice that it is not possible to change a queue to a durable once after it has been declared. 

Now we need to mark our messages as persistent. 

       channel.basic_publish(exchange='',
                      routing_key="orders",
                      body=json.dumps(message),
                      properties=pika.BasicProperties(
                         delivery_mode = 2, # make message persistent
                      ))

When messages and queue is durable RabbitMQ will save all messages to a disk.  Even though all messages are saved it does not guarantee that no messages will be lost.  There is still a short window when RabbitMQ has received the message and has not yet saved it to a disk, and sometimes RabbitMQ stores the message in a cache.  To get a stronger guarantee it is possible to use: publisher confirms.  

                          routing_key='durable_orders',
                          body=json.dumps(message),
                          properties=pika.BasicProperties(
                            delivery_mode = 2,
                          ))
                          
More on this at:
https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-two-python.html

