# JavaScript

JavaScript is described as a loosely- and dynamically typed scripting language
which can be used within different environments. Let’s dissect this
sentence and understand what this “name-dropping” means.
First, JavaScript is dynamically typed. When we declare a variable, write a
literal or construct an expression, the type is inferred. This means that we
do not create variables of particular type. We can simply assign a value to it
and use it. In the following code we declare a variable x and we assign the
literal 10 to it.

```javascript
let x = 10;
```

The type of the variable x will be of type number. This is the inverse of
Strongly Typed Programming languages such as, C and Java, where you
must state types of variables when being defined.
Second, JavaScript is loosely typed. Thus, the type of a given variable can
be changed after being defined. At one point a given variable can be of
type Number and couple of lines later the type of it might be changed to a
String, as following listing indicates.

```javascript
let x = 42;
// some lines of code
x = 'smuuu';
```

It can be tempting to use this feature to save memory or to hold temporary
values between data transformations – but be careful. You might think that
your variable is of a certain type when it is not. This is the cause of many
JavaScript errors. Later we introduce two ways to declare variables
using let and const, where the pointers of const variables cannot be
changed – you should always begin by declaring your variables with const
and argue if they should be changed into let. Avoid this language feature
at all cost if you want to reason about your program correctness.

JavaScript is a scripting language. This means that your JavaScript code
is not compiled to machine language instructions. The code is interpreted
on-the-fly. This is similar to languages such Python and Ruby.
Let us go back to the days when we were learning C/C++. We wrote couple
of lines and then the compiler barked at you if the syntax was incorrect. In
JavaScript this is different. The interpreter will execute your program even
if there are errors in it, and fails on the first error.
Skipping the “write-compile-run” you feel more productive when writing code
but be warned. The compiler knows the programming language better than
you and having him around telling you what you are doing wrong is a valuable
thing. Code paths that are executed seldom in JavaScript might at some
point be executed and exactly there, you misspelled something and your
application crashes.

In programming languages, such as in JavaScript, you need to do the compilers
work and rigorously write tests for your code to convince yourself that
it is working as expected.

At last. JavaScript is a formally defined language without an environment.
JavaScript can be embedded into different context. The most used one is
within a web browser. But lately, JavaScript is being use to write server-side
application with environments such as Node.js and io.js and within other
applications, such as Adobe PhotoShop to write plug-ins or in Unity3d to
write 3D applications. Investing time to learn JavaScript will pay-off where
JavaScript can be applied in many different contexts and, it seems, is on a
roll.
In this course we write JavaScript server-side to implement HTTP APIs and
for that we use the Node.js environment.

## Node.js

Node.js is an open source JavaScript runtime environment for writing serverside
network and web applications. It is a cross-platform solution and exists
on all major operating systems.
Node.js provides an event-driven architecture and a non-blocking I/O API
designed to optimize an application’s throughput and scalability for real-time
web applications. It uses Google V8 JavaScript engine to execute code, and
a large percentage of the basic modules are written in JavaScript. Node.js
contains a built-in library to allow applications to act as a web server without
software such as Apache HTTP Server, Nginx or IIS.
Non-blocking and asynchronous I/O means that the execution of your code
will not wait for I/O call are finished. All I/O operations will be dispatched
to the Operating System and Node.js will notify us, through call-backs when
they are finished.
Let’s see an example.

```javascript
setTimeout(() => {
console.log('Hello node');
}, 2000);
console.log('boom');
```

In this example we call the setTimeout method. When this method is
called the application dispatches an event to the operating system and asks
it for an interrupt after two seconds. When that happens, the call-back
function is called.
Here, Node.js will not stop and wait for two seconds. It will simply add it to
the event queue and continue it’s execution. Remember, it never waits for
I/O.
When we execute this application we get the following output.

```sh
boom
// wait for 2 seconds
hello node
```

All I/O calls in Node.js work that way. So what are I/O calls? All network
handling, reading from the hard-drive and waiting for interrupts.
By using this model, Node.js is able to handle millions of connections (depending
on hardware, connection and operating system).

Now, Node.js is single threaded. This is all fine where all the I/O operation
is dispatched asynchronously. But code that is not asynchronous can have
a dramatic impact of the performance. If you write a simple socket server
in Node.js and on every connection you start looping through large lists in
memory that takes time, then that can have a dramatic impact on incoming
connections to your server.

### Installing Node.js

How you install Node.js depends on your operating system. The latest version
can be downloaded from https://nodejs.org/en/download/.

It is of course possible to use the official installer. Another option is to 
download compiled binaries for your operating
system, unpack it and add it to path. By doing this you can have control over where
the binaries are, it will not get scattered around your operating system and
you can easily remove it for a different version later.

Let’s got through how that is done. Note that this will only work on Unixlike
operating systems. Begin by going to the above mentioned page and
download the correct binaries for you operating system. In this example we
will store the downloaded file in my home folder.

```sh
cd /Users/hlysig
wget nodejs.org/dist/v4.1.1/node-v4.1.1-darwin-x64.tar.gz
```

Next we inflate the tar-ball and rename it to .node

```sh
tar xzvf node-v4.1.1-*-x64.tar.gz
mv node-v4.1.1-*-x64 .node
```

Now I have the Node.js binaries in /Users/hlysig/.node and the only thing
left is to add it’s bin folder to the path environment variable.

```sh
echo "export PATH=\"$HOME/.node/bin:$PATH"\" >> .bashrc
```

Next I restart my shell and after that I have the commands node and npm
available in the shell.

```sh
˜/ node --version
v4.1.1
˜/ npm --version
2.14.4
```

If you see similar output, then you have successfully installed Node.js on your
machine.

In this document we use features defined in ECMAScript 6. Many of the
features within that standard were not available until version 4.x.x of Node.js.
Thus be sure to install the latest version to be able to follow the examples
in this document.

### Running JavaScript code with Node.js

If you run node then you go into an interactive prompt called REPL. REPL
stands for Read-Evaluate-PrintLine and is a shell where you can write in
expression and the value of it will be printed out on the screen. You can
write the examples in this documents directly into the REPL to try them
out. REPL is a great tool when you need to test simple expression when
developing.
You can also pass a filename into node with JavaScript code. Add the
following line into a file named hello.js.

```javascript
console.log('Hello Node');
```

You can then run this code with the following command:

```sh
node hello.js.
```

## Variables in JavaScript

Let’s start of by discussing variables and how they are defined in JavaScript.
We begin here so that we can use variables in upcoming sections in our
examples.
In JavaScript we have three keywords to define variables, var, let and
const. They pretty much do the same thing, that is, define variables for us
to use, but their semantics are different.
Since the release of ES6 it has been a debate if var should be avoided and
that developers should always use let instead. Frankly, var is still part of
the language and can still be used.
Let’s look at these keywords and how we can apply them. The talk about
scopes in this section might seem little overwhelming at first. Scoping rules
in JavaScript can be hard to grasp. The best way to learn the scoping rules
is to make couple of mistakes, learn from them and work your way up from
there. Throughout this document we will try to clarify many of these rules.
Please, don’t close this document after this first section.
Variable declaration in JavaScript has the following format.

```javascript
V name = statement;
Where V ∈ {let, const, var}
```

Before ES6 we had only one keyword to define a variable and that was
var.

```javascript
> var a = 10;
undefined
> var b = 20;
undefined
> var c = a + b;
undefined
> c
30
```

Variables defined with var are scoped within its nearest parent function.
If they are declreaded outside of functions, they will be part of the global
scope. This means that variables defined with var are said to be lexical- or
function scoped variables.
This can be strange for people coming from languages using block scoping
rules as the following examples indicates.

```javascript
var x = 20;
if (true) {
var x = 10;
}
console.log(x)
```

The inner variable x is defined again within a if block but also exists outside
of it. In this example we are using var, thus the variable is functioned scoped
in is therefore assigned to the global scope. The final console.log will
print out the value 10, not 20 as one might expect. This can sometimes cause
”strange” behaviours in application for developers that are not familiar with
such scoping rules.
To bypass this, two new keywords were introduced in ES6 to define variables:
let and const. let is similar to var but it has a tighter scoping rule.
let variables are limited in scope to the block, statement, or expression on
which it is used. When writing ES6 style code, you should always pick let
over var.

```javascript
'use strict';
let x = 20;
if (true) {
let x = 10;
}
console.log(x)
```

In this example we use let to define the inner variable and it is therefore
scoped within that block. The value printed out in this example is 20.

Also new in ES6 is const. The difference between let and const is that
let variables can be changed (that is, the value that they point to) but
const variables don’t. You should always try to define your variables as
const variables for program consistency and correctness. If a given variable
should not change, why then define in such a way that some other part of
code could accidentally change it?
Here are two examples how let and const are used.

> let a = 20;
> const b = 30;

Note that const is not the same as constant. When you use const
you can't change the value which the pointer points to, but you can change
the object it points to if it is a mutable object.
Next we look at types in JavaScript.

### Types

In JavaScript there are six primitive data types:

* Number
* Boolean
* String
* Null
* Undefined
* Symbol (new in ES6) (We do not discuss this type here but readers intereseted in knowing more
about this new type please take a look at http://blog.keithcirkel.co.uk/
metaprogramming-in-es6-symbols/)
* Object

We also have functions, but in JavaScript functions are said to be ”callable”
objects and are therefore objects. We discuss functions in section 6.
There is nothing to wait for, let us go through these types and get familiar
with them.

#### Numbers

In JavaScript there is only one number type, namely Number. If you open
the REPL and type in a number, you will get the number back as following
listing indicates.
> 42
42
> 34.3
34.3
There is no difference between float, doable or integers in JavaScript. They
are all represented by the same type, and that type is Number. Numbers are
represented with 64 bits and some of these bits are used for the fractional
part of the number, even if the value does not have a fractional part. Also
bit is taken for representing negative numbers. Thus, the highest value to
store in a number is 231 − 1.
This is a common pitfall in JavaScript when developers are trying to represent
64 bits values as numbers.
In Number there is a constant called MAX VALUE that can be used to view
the maximum value that can be stored in a Number type.

> Number.MAX_VALUE
1.7976931348623157e+308

In JavaScript you can look up the type of a given value using the ‘typeof‘
operator.

> typeof 1337.42
'number'

We can apply all the well known mathematical operators on Numbers. They
are similar to the once we have in C or Java.

> 42 + 4.2
46.2
> 2 * 34
68
> 7 / 23
0.30434782608695654
> 2 - (-3)
5

The precedence of operators are also similar as in C or Java. You can view
a table of the precedence of operators at https://developer.mozilla.
org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Operator_Precedence.

In JavaScript you have access to a global object named Math. In Math you
get access to many mathematical constants and functions to use in your calculations.
There is a good overview at https://developer.mozilla.
org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math

> Math.sqrt(25)
5
> Math.pow(2, 4)
16

There is a global constant in the Number object called NaN. NaN stands for
“Not a Number”. If you are doing some funky calculations or you are mixing
types that cannot be interpreted as numbers in your calculations, you will
get NaN as the result.

> 34 / "a"
NaN
> 34 + NaN / 34
NaN

NaN is contagious in expressions. If any part of the expression is NaN, the
whole expression becomes NaN.
A funny joke in the JavaScript community: the type of NaN is Number.

> typeof NaN
'number'

There is another global value that you might see if you are doing shady
calculations, and that is Infinity

> typeof Infinity
'number'

If you interested in math, then this statement will probably not make your
day.

> 5 / 0
Infinity

Don’t drink and drive – and don’t create a programming language under the
same influence.
There are two functions that you can use to check if value is NaN and
Infinity, Number.isNaN and Number.isFinite respectively.

> isNaN(10)
false
> isNaN(3 / "bob")
true
> isFinite(5/0)
false
> isFinite(30 + 2)
true

Word of advice. JavaScript is not the “best” programming language for
scientific calculations. It was not created for that purpose. Validate your
calculations, write tests for them and watch out for large numbers. Keep it
safe.

#### Boolean

JavaScript has a boolean type. There are exactly two values that boolean
can have, that is true and false.

> true
true
> false
false
> typeof true
'boolean'
> typeof false
'boolean'

JavaScript supports the same boolean operators as C and Java.

> true && false
false
> false || true
true
> (false || true) && true
true

The boolean operators always return a boolean value.
As in similar programming languages, boolean can be used when controlling
the flow in our programs when we use if, while and such. We'll look
at flow control later.

#### String

A stream of characters in JavaScript within single quotes, or double quotes,
are of the type string.
> "hello js"
'hello js'
> typeof 'hello js'
'string'

Strings in JavaScript are immutable. When a string has been created it cannot
be changed. All methods that work with strings return a new string.

> "Hello" + "world"
'Helloworld'

In this example we are concatenating two strings, the result is a new string.
Oh yeah, while we are at it. It is time for some strange drunken “programming
language decisions” rant. When you add together a string and a
number, you get a string back.

> 2 + "2"
'22'

JavaScript is trying to be smart, and typecasts the number into a string.
This happens when a language is dynamically- and loosely typed with an
ambiguous ‘+‘ operator dangling around. Well, we can forgive that. But in
subtraction it is different.

> 2 - "3"
-1
> "3" - 2
1

Here it is the opposite. The string is represented as a number. So be careful
mixing types when you are doing calculations and when concatenating
strings. You can always parse the values yourself using the global functions
parseInt, parseFloat. Also, Numbers can be represented as Strings
with ‘.toString()‘

> (12).toString()
'12'

The string type has many functions that you are likely familiar with from
other programming languages. The MDN entry at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String
is comprehensive and describes them well. You can look for string functions there when you need them. The following listing shows
couple of them in action.

> "hello world today".split(' ')
[ 'hello', 'world', 'today' ]
> 'bobby cakes'.indexOf('c')
6
> 'hlysig'.startsWith('h')
true
> 'hlysig!'.toUpperCase()
'HLYSIG!'

### Null and Undefined

There are two types to represent “nothing” in JavaScript and that is null
and undefined. They are not the same and they have different semantics
in the language.
First, null is actually not a type in JavaScript but a global object.

> typeof null
'object'

Whereas undefined is a type.

> typeof undefined
'undefined'

undefined means that you have declare a variable that has not been assigned
yet, or the return value from a function that has not return value.
We introduce variables and functions elsewhere, but here are two
examples that helps us understand undefined.

> let b;
undefined
> b
undefined
> b === undefined
true
> function noReturnValue() {console.log('hello');}
undefined
> noReturnValue() === undefined
hello
true

null on the other hand is a value that you can sign to a variable or return
from a function that represents “nothing”. You will only see null if you use
it yourself.

> let a = null;
undefined
> a
null
> a === null
true

The semantics here is that you are stating that this variables points to nothing.
But behind the scenes, this variable is pointing to the global object
null.
You should always try to avoid using null as much as you avoid drinking
gasoline. To back that sentence up we give a citation to Sir Charles Antony
Richard Hoare and his famous sentence “Null References, The Billion Dollar
Mistake”. We know that he apologised later, but functional programmers
still have that sentence tattooed on their forehead. Just be careful when
using null.

### Objects

JavaScript is a [Prototype-based](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prototype-based_programming) programming language. That is a different
approach to [Object Oriented Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming)
where object behaviour is reused through Prototype chains. In this course we will not deal so deep
with JavaScript objects nor do much OOP programming in it. If anything,
we will do more functional style programming.
This does not mean that we will not use objects, far from it. We will mostly
be creating objects, using the object literal notation, for encapsulating data,
grouping common data together and as a associative array.

http://javascriptissexy.com/javascript-prototype-in-plain-detailed-language/

Now let’s look at objects. To define an object using literal notation we use {}.

const entry = {
  title: 'Concerning Hobbits',
  content: 'They have hairy toes'
};

In this example we define variable which points to an instance of an object.
Objects have many similarities to associative arrays and can be used as such.
Objects have collections of keys, in this example we have the keys title
and content and properties which they point to.
Properties can be fetched with the ‘.‘ operator on the object using the
key.

> entry.title
’Concerning Hobbits’

We can also place the key into brackets:

> entry['title']
'Concerning Hobbits'

This can be useful when the keys have spaces or strange characters in them.
Properties in objects can be of any type, even another object or a function.

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a formal description how JavaScript
object can be serialized back and forth from objects to strings. There is a
global object named ‘JSON‘ that we can use for that purpose, as following
listing indicates.

> var x = {'data': 'hello world'}
> let jsdata = JSON.stringify(x)
> jsdata
'{"data":"hello world"}'
> JSON.parse(jsdata)
{ data: 'hello world' }

In this example we create an object. We serialize it to JSON and then we
take that JSON and we serialize it back to object. We will be doing this
heavily in this course where our web services will be returing JSON data and
accepting JSON data.

## Functions

In this section we introduce functions in JavaScript. Here we cover two types
of function types, namely the functions defined with the function keyword
and Fat Arrow Functions.

### Defining functions with the function keyword

Since ES6, JavaScript now provides two ways to implement functions. The
one prior ES6 uses the keyword function. Functions using that keyword
are defined as follows.

function add(x, y) {
return x + y
}
add(1, 4)

Here we define a named function, with the name add which takes two arguments,
x and y, and returns the sum of them. If a function does not have a
return statement, then undefined is returned.
As stated above, functions are also objects and can be bound to variables
and passed into other functions as arguments. This phenomenon is often
called [Higher Order Functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higher-order_function).

> const d = function(x, y) {return x + y};
undefined
> d(2, 5)
7
> const b = d;
undefined
> b(2, 5)
7
>

Here we create an Anonymous function and we assign it to a variable with the
name d. Then later, we assign the same function to a new variable and use
that variable to call the function.
Here is a simple example how we can pass methods as parameters into functions.

> let sayHello = function(name) {
return "Hello " + name
}
undefined
> let sayGoodbye = function(name) {
return "See you later " + name
}
undefined
> function greet(name, f) { return f(name)}
undefined
> greet('hlysig', sayHello)
’Hello hlysig’
> greet('hlysig', sayGoodbye)
'See you later hlysig'

This is a common pattern in JavaScript where function are passed in as callback
function when some unit of work has executed. We see more of that
when we discuss the Node.js asynchronous model in section n.
One little function caveat. It is not required to pass value for every argument
of the function. If not given, that argument will be undefined.

> const foo = function(a, b, c) {
console.log(a, b, c);
};
undefined
> foo(1);
1 undefined undefined

Where JavaScript functions accept less parameters then the ones that are
defined, it would be strange if you couldn’t add more then are defined in the
argument list, right? Well, JavaScript has you covered. It is a good practice
to validate that the arguments in functions have expected values. You
have access to all the arguments passed into a given function with through
arguments constant within the function. This features allows you to create
functions with infinite arguments. Here is a simple example of how the
arguments can be used to create a sum function.

’use strict’;
const mysum = function() {
let sum = 0;
for (let i of arguments) {
sum += i;
}
return sum;
};
console.log(mysum(5, 2, 3));

### Fat Arrow functions

In ES6 new type of function was introduced, namely the Fat Arrow Functions.
Now let’s look at the syntactic difference between them and then
the semantic difference.
Arrow functions are always anonymous functions and there is no special
keyword to define them. This is the syntax for Arrow Functions
(argument1, .. argumentn) => {statement1, .. statementn}
If there is only one argument, then the parentheses can be omitted. If there
is only one statement the braces can be omitted.

const add = (x, y) => x+y;

If the body of the function is a single expression, then the value of that statement
is automatically returned. If the body has more than one statement,
you must explicitly return a value with the ‘return‘ keyword.
This style of functions is shorter and is syntactically more beautiful, especially
when it comes to call-back function as following example indicates.

app.get(’/news’, function(req, res) {
res.send(’Hello world’);
});

app.get(’/news’, (req, res) => res.send(’Hello world’));

Arrow functions are not a replacement for the old-style functions where they
are semantically different. The difference lays in the scoping value of object
‘this‘. When using Fat Arrow functions lexically bind the this value, that
is to the enclosing context where the old style functions behave differently
on that matter.
In this course this will not be of any problems. But we encourage students to
look into the difference between those types of function and their handling
of scopes.

## Array

In this section we introduce the Array object in JavaScript.

### Create array

To create an empty array in JavaScript we use [] as the following example
indicates:

> const a = [];
undefined
> a
[]

We can also initialize the array with values by placing them between the
brackets.

> const a = [1, 2, 3, 4];
undefined
> a
[ 1, 2, 3, 4 ]

In JavaScript you can mix objects of different types into the array. They are
not bound to any type.

> [1, ’hlysig’, ’2’, {}]
[ 1, ’hlysig’, ’2’, {} ]

### Array operations

Arrays in JavaScript are 0-based. That is, the first value in the array has the
index zero. We can fetch values from they array by the index as follows.

> const a = [’hlysig’, ’f00’, ’yeah’]
undefined
> a[1]
’f00’

If you select an out-of-bounds index, then you will get undefined back.
The Array object has many functions to to operate over an array instance.
There is an excellent article on that on the [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array).
But in the following listings we will show a handful of them.
The slice method returns a shallow copy of a portion of an array into a
new array object.

> a
[ ’hlysig’, ’f00’, ’yeah’ ]
> a.slice(-1)
[ ’yeah’ ]
> a.slice(0, 1)
[ ’hlysig’ ]
The length property returns the length of the array.
> a.length
3

The indexOf returns the index of a given value within the array.

> a.indexOf(’f00’)
1

The map function receives a function and maps that function over each element
of the array and returns a new array.

> const d = [1, 2, 3, 4];
undefined
> d.map((v) => v+2)
[ 3, 4, 5, 6 ]

The forEach function iterates over the whole array. This function accepts
a call-back function which is called for each element in the array

> d.forEach(function(v) {
console.log(v)
})
1
2
3
4

When you need some specific array operation, please look at the MDN article
on Arrays. You will most likely find it there.

## Comparison

In this section we discuss comparison operators that can be used to compare
objects in JavaScript.

### Equality operators

There are two types of Equality operators called Equality, and strict equality.
They are == and === respectively.
The equality operator converts the operands if they are not of the same type.
Here is an example.

> 1 == '1'
true

The number operator is casted to string for the equality check. When we
use this equality operator the operands do need to be of the same type.
The strict equality on the other hand will not evaluate anything to true
unless they are of the same type.

> 1 === '1'
false

Note that when you compare mutable objects, such as Arrays and Objects
your a comparing the pointer to the object. They will not evaluate to true
even if they are the same. Only if their pointers are the same. When you
have immutable objects, such as numbers and booleans, their value are compared.
When in doubt which one to use, always use strict equality. In matter of
fact, always use strict equality unless you know what you are doing.
The negation equality check works the same, there we have != and !==.
The follow the same rules as we described above.

### Relational operators
JavaScript supports the same relational operators as in C or Java. They are
explained with examples in the following listing.

> 2 > 1
true
> 3 <= 3
true
> 3 <= 3 && 2 != 2
false

## Controlling flow

In this section we run through the flow control statements available in JavaScript.
The controlling statments are similar to the once we know and love from other
procedural OOP languages.

### if-else

If and else are similar as in C or Java and have the following form.
if (b1) {
// code
} else if(b2) {
// code
} else {
}
The else-if and else are optional, as in the above mentioned languages. The
statements b1 and b2 are evaluted to boolean value and the blocks are
executed with respect to the output of that evaluation.
The check can be other objects than boolean values and we say that the
evaluation calculates Truthy and Falsy of the statements. The following list
shows how different objects are evaluated to true in JavaScript.

* if (true)
* if ()
* if ([])
* if (42)
* if ("foo")
* if (new Date())

The following list shows statements which will evaluate to false

* if (false)
* if (null)
* if (undefined)
* if (0)
* if (NaN)
* if ('')

### Switch

https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/switch

### Exception handling

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch

### Loops and iterations

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Loops_and_iteration

## Reading material

A Short History of JavaScript

https://www.w3.org/community/webed/wiki/A_Short_History_of_JavaScript

Global objects

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NaN

The Math object

https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math

Array

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

Operator Precedence

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Operator_Precedence

Eloquent JavaScript - Free online JavaScript book

http://eloquentjavascript.net/

Node.js - Free online book on Node.js

http://book.mixu.net/node/

ES6 variable declarations

https://strongloop.com/strongblog/es6-variable-declarations/

Arrow functions and function scoping

http://toddmotto.com/es6-arrow-functions-syntaxes-and-lexical-scopin

JavaScript scopes

https://toddmotto.com/everything-you-wanted-to-know-about-javascript-scope/
