# Security

This section will cover some of the most common security vulnerabilities web applications face, and what can be done to prevent them.

The [Open Web Application Security Project](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Main_Page) has a lot of information about security issues in web applications. For instance, the [Top 10 list](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Top_Ten_Project#tab=OWASP_Top_10_for_2013) is very useful.

## SQL injection

SQL injection is probably the best known security issue in web development, partly due to [this XKCD comic](https://xkcd.com/327/). In short, if an application uses input from users directly when constructing SQL commands, it allows the user to execute arbitrary commands. This could lead to data loss, sensitive data could end up in the hands of hackers, etc.

This topic has been covered a lot elsewhere. [This article is totally worth the read](https://www.troyhunt.com/everything-you-wanted-to-know-about-sql/).

To prevent this from happening, ensure that you never concatenate SQL commands directly. Instead, use parameterized queries. When using the entity framework, this is mostly taken care of by the framework, but should be kept in mind nonetheless.

## Cross-site scripting

Cross-site scripting is when a page accepts input from a user, and renders the input directly on an HTML page. If the user adds input such as:

&lt;script&gt;alert("Im hacking your computer")%lt;/script%gt;

which would then be rendered as-is, then other users would execute this script. It this case, a simple alert() will not do any harm except for being annoying. However, the script could to all kinds of other things: read data from cookies/localStorage/etc. and send it to a hacker via an Ajax call, exploit know vulnerabilities in the browser of the user etc.

Web APIs usually don't worry too much about this, i.e. since this is mostly a matter of not rendering content from users directly, and this is usually done by the client application.

## CSRF (See-surf)

This vulnerability is probably the most relevant to Web API development. What happens is as follows:

* The user has already visited a page A which has a CSRF vulnerability
* The user visit another page B which tries to exploit that vulnerability
* Page B contains code which tries to issue a request to page A, thereby performing actions on behalf of the current user, without that user knowing about it.

Example:

* A teacher logs in to a Learning Management System (LMS) website (example: http://thelmswebsite.com) which uses cookies for authentication
* The teacher then visits www.some-hacking-website.com
* That site contains (hidden) code such as: $.ajax({method:'POST', url:'http://thelmswebsite.com/courses/12345/grades', data:{student:'123456789', grade:10}); - if the vulnerable endpoint is a GET endpoint, then the exploit could be a simple img tag which points to that endpoint
* Since the teacher had already logged into http://thelmswebsite.com, the browser will happily attach the cookie it had already obtained from that site to the request
* If the method being called allows requests to be issued from any origin, then the hacker may have tricked the teacher into giving the student with ID '123456789' the grade 10 in the course '12345'.

There are a few things which can be done to prevent this:

* Only allow requests from a known list of domains when configuring CORS (which may not be enough!)
* Add a special CSRF Token to GET requests, which would then be checked when POST/PUT/etc. requests are issued.

## Security Misconfiguration

Security Misconfiguration is when an attacker can access unprotected files, default accounts etc. to gain unauthorizes access to the system. It can happen at any level of an application stack, the web server, database, framework, etc. All developers and system administrators need to ensure that the stack is configured properly

This can happen for example if your software is out of date or if the security settings in your development framwork and libraries are not set to secure values. 

What can you do to prevent this?
* A repeatable hardening process that makes it fast and easy to deploy another environment that is properly locked down. Development, QA, and production environments should all be configured identically (with different passwords used in each environment). This process should be automated to minimize the effort required to setup a new secure environment.
* A process for keeping abreast of and deploying all new software updates and patches in a timely manner to each deployed environment. This needs to include all code libraries as well.
* A strong application architecture that provides effective, secure separation between components.
* Consider running scans and doing audits periodically to help detect future misconfigurations or missing patches.

Example:
* The app server admin console is automatically installed and not removed. Default accounts aren’t changed. Attacker discovers the standard admin pages are on your server, logs in with default passwords, and takes over.
* Directory listing is not disabled on your server. Attacker discovers she can simply list directories to find any file. Attacker finds and downloads all your compiled Java classes, which she decompiles and reverse engineers to get all your custom code. She then finds a serious access control flaw in your application.
* App server configuration allows stack traces to be returned to users, potentially exposing underlying flaws. Attackers love the extra information error messages provide.
* App server comes with sample applications that are not removed from your production server. Said sample applications have well known security flaws attackers can use to compromise your server.




